# Network reaction norms: taking into account network position and plasticity in response to environmental change

1. Recent studies have highlighted the link between consistent inter-individual differences in behaviour and consistency in social network position. There is also evidence that network structures can show temporal dynamics, suggesting that consistency in social network position across time does not preclude some form of plasticity in response to environmental variation. 
2.	To better consider variation in network position and plasticity simultaneously we introduce the network reaction norm (NRN) approach. This approach draws on the behavioural reaction norm (BRN) used in behavioural ecology. By extending BRN to dynamic social networks, variation in node position can be estimated through time (i.e., network position), as well as variation in response to changing environments (i.e., network plasticity).
3.	As an illustrative example we used behavioural data on chacma baboons, collected over a period of seven years, to construct a time series of networks using a moving window approach. We used these data with NRN to quantify both the consistency with which individuals maintained social behaviour (node strength) and central positions (eigenvector centrality) within the social network, as well as variation in how an individual responded to changes in the environment.
4.	We found evidence for individual plasticity for node strength but little evidence for eigenvector centrality, and conversely, we found evidence of individual differences in eigenvector centrality but not strength. This suggests that individual social proximity behaviours (i.e., node strength) are influenced by environmental changes, however, despite these changes the social structure of the group remains remarkably stable (i.e., node eigenvector centrality). 
5.	We suggest that expanding from measures of repeatability in social networks to network reaction norms can provide a more contextually nuanced way to investigate social phenotypes, leading to a better understanding of the development and maintenance of social structures in changing environments. 

Code and data for the observed data are available in the code folder. Please feel free to email me at tyler.bonnell@gmail.com if you have any questions.
